# Webpack Introduction

Webpack is a module bundler for javascript applications. Webpack recursively builds every module in your application, then packs all those modules into a small number of bundles.

Essentially it is used for bundling JavaScript modules with dependencies into files, but for complex JavaScript applications with lots of non-code assets (images, fonts, CSS, etc.) it can provide great benefits.

Talking about Webpack vs Gulp vs Grunt performance, the two latter look into a defined path for files that match your configuration, while the Webpack analyzes the whole project. It looks through all the dependencies, processes them with loaders and produces a bundled JS file.

webpack now supports these module types:
javascript/auto: (The default one in webpack 3) Javascript module with all module systems enabled: CommonJS, AMD, ESM
javascript/esm: EcmaScript modules, all other module system are not available
javascript/dynamic: Only CommonJS and, EcmaScript modules are not available
json: JSON data, it's available via require and import
webassembly/experimental: WebAssembly modules (currently experimental)
javascript/esm handles ESM more strictly compared to javascript/auto:
Imported names need to exist on imported module
Dynamic modules (non-esm, i. e. CommonJs) can only imported via default import, everything else (including namespace import) emit errors
In .mjs modules are javascript/esm by default

# Configuration

Bundle is the output file generated by webpack. It contains all of the modules which are used in application. Bundles generation process is regulated by webpack config file.

The entry object is where webpack looks to start building the bundle, at this point the application starts executing.Any time one file depends on another, webpack treats this as a dependency. Starting from entry point(s), webpack recursively builds a dependency graph that includes every module your application needs, using import and require statements, then packages all of those modules into bundle(s).

## Loaders

Loaders are transformations that are applied on the source code of a module. webpack supports modules written in a variety of languages and preprocessors, via loaders. Loaders describe to webpack how to process non-javaScript modules and include these dependencies into your bundles.

## Plugins

Plugins used to customize webpack’s build process in a variety of ways. A webpack plugin is a JavaScript object that has an apply property. This apply property is called by the webpack compiler, giving access to the entire compilation lifecycle. Webpack comes with a multiple built-in plugins available under `webpack.[plugin-name]`.
